.TH ROUNDUP-MAILGW 1 "24 January 2003"
.SH NAME
roundup-mailgw \- mail gateway for roundup
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroundup-mailgw\fP \fI<instance home>\fP [\fImethod\fP]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIhyperdb class\fP
specify a tracker class - one of msg (the default), issue, file, user - to
manipulate with -S options
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fIproperty=value[;property=value] pairs\fP
specify the values to set on the class specified by -C using the same
format as the Subject line property manipulations
.SH DESCRIPTION
The roundup mail gateway may be called in one of three ways:
.IP \(bu
with an instance home as the only argument,
.IP \(bu
with both an instance home and a mail spool file, or
.IP \(bu
with both an instance home and a pop server account.
.PP
\fBPIPE\fP
.br
In the first case, the mail gateway reads a single message from the
standard input and submits the message to the roundup.mailgw module.

\fBUNIX mailbox\fP
.br
In the second case, the gateway reads all messages from the mail spool
file and submits each in turn to the roundup.mailgw module. The file is
emptied once all messages have been successfully handled. The file is
specified as:
 \fImailbox /path/to/mailbox\fP

\fBPOP\fP
.br
In the third case, the gateway reads all messages from the POP server
specified and submits each in turn to the roundup.mailgw module. The
server is specified as:
 \fIpop username:password@server\fP
.br
The username and password may be omitted:
 \fIpop username@server\fP
 \fIpop server\fP
.br
are both valid. The username and/or password will be prompted for if
not supplied on the command-line.

\fBAPOP\fP
Same as POP, but using Authenticated POP:
 \fIapop username:password@server\fP
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Bastian Kleineidam
<calvin@debian.org> for the Debian distribution of roundup.

The main author of roundup is Richard Jones
<richard@users.sourceforge.net>.
