.TH ROUNDUP-MAILGW 1 "27 October 2022"
.SH NAME
roundup-mailgw \- mail gateway for roundup
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroundup-mailgw\fP [\fI-h|--help] [\fI-v\fP] [\fI--version\fP]
[\fI-c|--default-class\fP \fIdefault_class\fP]
[\fI-S|--set-value\fP \fI[class.]field=value\fP]
[\fI-O|--oauth-directory\fP \fIdirectory\fP]
[\fI-T|--oauth-token-endpoint\fP \fIendpoint-url\fP]
[\fIinstance_home\fP] [\fImail source [specification]\fP]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fP \fB--version\fP
Print version and exit.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fB--default-class\fP \fIhyperdb class\fP
specify the default tracker class - one of issue (the default), msg,
file, user etc. Overrides the tracker's mailgw \fIdefault_class\fP setting.
.TP
\fB-S\fP \fB--set-value\fP \fI[class.]property\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP[\fB;\fP\fIproperty\fP\fB=\fP\fIvalue\fP]
specify the values to set on the class specified as prefix using the same
format as the Subject line property manipulations. If the class prefix
is left out it defaults to \fImsg\fP. Can also be
specified with \fB--set-value\fP (and abbreviated to \fB--set\fP).
.TP
\fB-O\fP \fB--oauth-directory\fP \fIdirectory\fP
Only with OAuth authentication specify the directory containing
additional OAuth credentials.
.TP
\fB-T\fP \fB--oauth-token-endpoint\fP \fIurl\fP
Token endpoint URL of your cloud provider, only used with OAuth.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The roundup mail gateway may be called in one of four ways:
.IP \(bu
without arguments which will use the env var ROUNDUP_INSTANCE,
.IP \(bu
with an \fIinstance_home\fP as the only argument,
.IP \(bu
with both an \fIinstance_home\fP and a mail spool file, or
.IP \(bu
with both an instance home and a mail source type and its specification.
.PP
\fBPIPE\fP
.br
If there is no mail source specified, the mail gateway reads a single
message from the standard input and submits the message to the
roundup.mailgw module.

\fBUNIX mailbox\fP
.br
In this case, the gateway reads all messages from the UNIX mail spool
file and submits each in turn to the roundup.mailgw module. The file is
emptied once all messages have been successfully handled. The file is
specified as:
 \fBmailbox\fP \fI/path/to/mailbox\fP

In all of the following mail source types, the username and password
can be stored in a ~/.netrc file. If done so, only the server name
needs to be specified on the command-line.

The username and/or password will be prompted for if not supplied on
the command-line or in ~/.netrc.

\fBPOP\fP
.br
For the mail source "pop", the gateway reads all messages from the POP
server specified and submits each in turn to the roundup.mailgw module.
The server is specified as:
 \fBpop\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP
.br
The username and password may be omitted:
 \fBpop\fP \fIusername\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP
 \fBpop\fP \fIserver\fP
.br
are both valid.

\fBPOPS\fP
.br
Connect to the POP server over ssl/tls.
This supports the same notation as POP.

\fBAPOP\fP
.br
Same as POP, but using Authenticated POP:
 \fBapop\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP

\fBIMAP\fP
.br
Connect to an IMAP server. This supports the same notation as that of
POP mail.
 \fBimap\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP
.br
It also allows you to specify a specific mailbox other than INBOX using
this format:
 \fBimap\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver mailbox\fP

\fBIMAPS\fP
.br
Connect to an IMAP server over ssl/tls.
This supports the same notation as IMAP.
 \fBimaps\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP [\fImailbox\fP]

\fBIMAPS_CRAM\fP
.br
Connect to an IMAP server over ssl/tls using CRAM-MD5 authentication.
This supports the same notation as IMAP.
 \fBimaps_cram\fP \fIusername\fP\fB:\fP\fIpassword\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP [\fImailbox\fP]

\fBIMAPS_OAUTH\fP
.br
Connect to an IMAP server over ssl/tls using OAUTH authentication.
Note that this does not support a password in imaps URLs.
Instead it uses only the user and server and a command-line option for
the directory with the files \fBaccess_token\fP, \fBrefresh_token\fP,
\fBclient_secret\fP, and \fBclient_id\fP.
By default this directory is \fBoauth\fP in your tracker home directory. The
access token is tried first and, if expired, the refresh token together
with the client secret is used to retrieve a new access token. Note that
both token files need to be \fIwriteable\fP, the access token is
continuously replaced and some cloud providers may also renew the
refresh token from time to time:
 \fBimaps_oauth\fP \fIusername\fP\fB@\fP\fIserver\fP [\fImailbox\fP]
.br
The refresh and access tokens (the latter can be left empty), the
client id and the client secret need to be retrieved via cloud provider
specific protocols or websites.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

\fBROUNDUP_INSTANCE\fP
.br
This can be used to set the instance directory. If it is set, the
\fIinstance_home\fP argument is optional.

.SH EXAMPLE
If your msg class has a messsagetype property you can set
up aliases to receive the different types of messages. Setting up
an alias in your MTA Using:

  tracker: |/tools/roundup/bin/roundup-mailgw
             -S "msg.messagetype=reply - to all" /var/roundup/sysadmin

(the lines are split for readability. In the alias file they will be
on the same line). Replace /tools/roundup/bin/roundup-mailgw by your
path to the roundup-mailgw. This creates the email alias "tracker". All
messages sent to it have their messagetype property set to "reply -
to all".  The roundup tracker instance is located at
/var/roundup/sysadmin.

A comment alias would receive emails at tracker_comment with:

  tracker_comment: |/tools/roundup/bin/roundup-mailgw
             -S "msg.messagetype=to tech" /var/roundup/sysadmin

which would be a technical message. These messages can trigger
different workflows based on the messagetype.

Both examples use the default class specified in the tracker's
config.ini (usually the issue class).

You can also set properties directly on the issue class. If
your tracker's issue has a "private" property that limits
who can view an issue and its messages:

  security: |/tools/roundup/bin/roundup-mailgw
             -S "issue.private=true" -S "issue.keyword+=security"
             /var/roundup/sysadmin

would set the private property on a issue to restrict
visiblity and mark the issue as a security topic using a
keyword.

Both examples use the default class specified in the tracker's
config.ini (usually the issue class).

.SH SEE ALSO
roundup-admin(1), roundup-demo(1), roundup-server(1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Bastian Kleineidam
<calvin@debian.org> for the Debian distribution of roundup.

The main author of roundup is Richard Jones
<richard@users.sourceforge.net>.

Updates by John Rouillard <rouilj@users.sourceforge.net> and Ralf
Schlatterbeck <rsc@runtux.com>.
