.TH ROUNDUP-DEMO 1 "27 July 2004"
.SH NAME
roundup-demo \- create a roundup "demo" tracker and launch its web interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroundup_demo\fP [\fB\-h\fP] [\fB-b\fP \fIBIND_ADDRESS\fP] 
[\fB-b\fP {\fBanydbm\fP,\fBmysql\fP,\fBsqlite\fP,\fBpostgresql\fP}]
[\fB-t\fb
{\fBminimal\fP,\fBjinja2\fP,\fBclassic\fP,\fBresponsive\fP,\fBdevel\fP}]
[\fB-p\fP \fIPORT\fP] [\fB-P\fP \fIURLPORT\fP] [\fB-V\fP]
[\fIdirectory\fP] [\fIbackend\fP] [\fBnuke\fP]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIdirectory\fP

The home directory for the new demo tracker. (*)
.TP
\fIbackend\fP

Choose backend database. Depricated, use \fB-b\fP.
.TP
\fBnuke\fP

Create a fresh demo tracker (deleting the existing one if
any).  E.G.
.EX
    roundup-demo -b sqlite -t classic ./mytracker nuke
.EE
will remove an existing tracker (if present) from the directory
\fB./mytracker\fP.  Then it will create and serve a new empty classic
tracker using the sqlite backend.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP

Show the help message and exit
.TP
\fB-B\fp \fIBIND_ADDRESS\fI, \fB--bind_address\fP \fIBIND_ADDRESS\fP

Choose address for server to listen at. Use 0.0.0.0 to bind to all addreses.
Default: 127.0.0.1.
.TP
\fB-b\fP {\fBanydbm\fP,\fBmysql\fP,\fBsqlite\fP,\fBpostgresql\fP}, \
\fB--backend_db\fP {\fBanydbm\fP,\fBmysql\fP,\fBsqlite\fP,\fBpostgresql\fP}

Choose backend database. Default:
sqlite. Available backends are subject to availability on your system.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \
{\fBminimal\fP,\fBjinja2\fP,\fBclassic\fP,\fBresponsive\fP,\fBdevel\fP}, \
\fP--template\fB \
{\fBminimal\fP,\fBjinja2\fP,\fBclassic\fP,\fBresponsive\fP,\fBdevel\fP}

Use specified template when building tracker. (*)
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIHOSTNAME\fP, \fB--hostname\fP \fIHOSTNAME\fP

Set the hostname used in the URL. This does not make the server listen
at the hostname. Use the hostname with \fB-B\fP to listen on that IP
address.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIPORT\fP, \fB--port\fP \fIPORT\fP

Listen at this port. Default: search for open port starting at 8917.
.TP
\fB-P\fP \fIURLPORT\fP, \fB--urlport\fP \fIURLPORT\fP

When using docker this option passes the docker external port to the
demo instance. If using \fBdocker ... -p 9090:8917 ...\fP this should
be set to \fB-P 9090\fP. Default: as selected by \fB--port\fP.
.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP

Show program's version number and exit

.PP
If items marked with (*) are missing, they will be asked for
interactively when setting up the tracker.

.SH DESCRIPTION
This command creates a fresh demo tracker for you to experiment
with. The email features of Roundup will be turned off (so the nosy
feature won't send email). It does this by removing the
\fBnosyreaction.py\fP module from the demo tracker's \fIdetectors\fP
directory. If you wish to send email to promote the tracker to
production, you will need to copy \fBnosyreaction.py\fP from the
default tracker templates directory.  The \fBtemplates\fP command from
roundup-admin(1) can help you locate a replacement.

If you wish, you may modify the demo tracker by editing its configuration
files and HTML templates. See the \fIcustomisation\fP manual for
information about how to do that.

Once you've fiddled with the demo tracker, you may use it as a template for
creating your real, live tracker. Simply run the \fIroundup-admin\fP
command to install the tracker from inside the demo tracker home directory,
and it will be listed as an available template for installation. No data
will be copied over.
.SH SEE ALSO

roundup-admin(1), roundup-mailgw(1), roundup-server(1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Richard Jones and extensively modified by
John Rouillard <rouilj@users.sourceforge.net>.
