.TH ROUNDUP-SERVER 1 "27 July 2004"
.SH NAME
roundup-server \- start roundup web server
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroundup-server\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fBname=\fP\fItracker home\fP]*
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-C\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB--config\fP \fIfile\fP
Use options read from the configuration file (see below).
.TP
\fB-n\fP \fIhostname\fP
Sets the host name or IP address to listen on. Default is localhost
(127.0.0.1). Use 0.0.0.0 to listen on all interfaces on the system.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIport\fP
Sets the port to listen on (default: 8080).
.TP
\fB-d\fP \fIPIDfile\fP
Run the server in the background and write the server's PID to the
file indicated by PIDfile. The -l (or -L) option \fBmust\fP be
specified if -d is used.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fBfork|thread|debug|none\fP
Control multi-process mode. \fBdebug\fP and \fBnone\fP are always
available. If an invalid mode is specified the server starts in
\fBnone\fP (also called single) mode. Default fork.
.TP
\fB-m\fP \fImax_children\fP
Set the maximum number of child processes (servers). This value
may need to be increased on a heavily loaded site.  Default 40.
.TP
\fB-l\fP \fIfile\fP
Sets a filename to log to (instead of stdout). This is required if the -d
option is used.
.TP
\fB-L\fP
Have the server log using the Python logger with key roundup.http.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIfile\fP
Sets a filename to use as a template for generating the tracker index page.
The variable "trackers" is available to the template and is a dict of all
configured trackers.
.TP
\fB-I\fP \fIheader1[,header2,...]\fP
Pass the header(s) and their values to the backend. This allow-list
of header variables can be used by custom code in the tracker or with
a tracker's \fBhttp_auth_header\fP configuration option to allows a
front end server to authenticate a user and pass the user identity to
roundup.
.TP
\fB-s\fP
Enables use of SSL. In most cases, you will want to run a real web server
(Apache, Nginx) as a proxy to roundup-server running without SSL.
The real web server can filter/rate limit/firewall requests to
roundup-server.
.TP
\fB-e\fP \fIfile\fP
Sets a filename containing the PEM file to use for SSL. The PEM file
must include both the private key and certificate with appropriate
headers (e.g. "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----", "-----END PRIVATE
KEY-----" and "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----", "-----END
CERTIFICATE-----". If no file is specified, a temporary self-signed
certificate will be used.
.TP
\fB-N\fP
Log client machine names instead of IP addresses (much slower).
.TP
\fB-V\fP \fIHTTPVER\fP
By default roundup-server uses HTTP/1.1 to enable keepalives for faster
response. HTTPVER can be set to \fBHTTP/1.0\fP to disable keepalives.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIUID\fP
Runs the Roundup web server as this UID.
.TP
\fB-g\fP \fIGID\fP
Runs the Roundup web server as this GID.
.TP
\fB-v\fP or \fB--version\fP
Print version and exit.
.TP
\fB-h\fP or \fB--help\fP
Print help and exit.
.TP
\fB--save-config\fP
Create configuration file and exit. The old config.ini will be saved to
config.bak. Note that this command doesn't attempt to load or verify
an existing config.ini. Running this in a tracker home directory will
move the existing config.ini to config.bak and replace it with the
roundup-server's config.ini. This will make the tracker in the
directory fail to start until the original config.ini is restored.
.TP
\fBname=\fP\fItracker home\fP
Sets the tracker home(s) to use. The \fBname\fP variable is how the tracker is
identified in the URL (it's the first part of the URL path). The \fItracker
home\fP variable is the directory that was identified when you did
"roundup-admin init". You may specify any number of these name=home pairs on
the command-line. For convenience, you may edit the TRACKER_HOMES variable in
the roundup-server file instead.  Make sure the name part doesn't include any
url-unsafe characters like spaces, as these confuse the cookie handling in
browsers like IE.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B roundup-server -p 9000 bugs=/var/tracker reqs=/home/roundup/group1
Start the server on port \fB9000\fP serving two trackers; one under
\fB/bugs\fP and one under \fB/reqs\fP.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
See the "admin_guide" in the Roundup "doc" directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
roundup-admin(1), roundup-demo(1), roundup-mailgw(1)

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Bastian Kleineidam
<calvin@debian.org> for the Debian distribution of roundup.

The main author of roundup is Richard Jones
<richard@users.sourceforge.net>.
